# Summary
This is meant to be used by Northwestern's Chicago Field Studies program in order to allow Student Consultants to conduct practice technical interviews for their peers.  At present, the problems are written in Python, in the future support for other languages might be added.

# How to Use This Repository
## As a CFS Student Consultant
To use this repository as an SC, simply pick a problem.  There will be notes for you to help you get an idea of what to ask, or how to prompt your student, as well as examples of what correct code looks like.

To actually conduct the interview, pick as many questions as time allows (a good guideline is to give about 15 minutes per question).  When it's time to interview, provide your interviewee with a link to this repository, and tell them to fork the repository and clone it to their device, then screen-share with you as they open it in their favorite text editor or IDE.  If they don't use an IDE, they will need to run the response.py script from a terminal, which I don't recommend.  

They should (hopefully) know what this means, Git is a huge part of the software engineering industry and everyone uses an IDE such as Visual Studio Code, so there shouldn't be too many issues with setup (though I need to conduct some user testing to be certain, sorry).

## As an Interviewee
To use this repository as an interviewee, you should fork and then clone the repository onto your computer.  DO NOT OPEN InterviewerNotes.md FROM ANY DIRECTORY!!!!

Your SC will select a problem that should correspond to one of the directories.  You'll want to open Problem.md and response.py, you'll see an empty function for you to fill out with a pass statement in it.

When you have what you believe to be a working solution, you should be able to run response.py, which should print out whether the test cases have passed or not.  If they fail, also printed will be the expected value and your output.

# Structure
Each question should be formulated as its own module, with the following files:
- Problem.md
    - Gives a summary of the problem with specifications, as well as examples and possible extensions.
- gen.py
    - Creates a JSON document that has valid inputs and outputs according to the formulation of the question.
- solutions.json
    - Generated by gen.py, gives a list of valid solutions.
- response.py
    - Where an interviewee will put their response.  Has appropriate imports so that it can access the shared module for an automated checker (so that SCs have an idea on how well interviewee code is performing).  Interviewees should only alter the function that says pass, though it is also permitted to create helper functions provided that they're only called from that function that has pass.  Running this file should be sufficient to see if your solution is working, provided the rest of the repository is present.
- InterviewerNotes.md
    - Gives an overview of the problem, with possible solutions.  The idea is that an interviewer with little to no coding experience can conduct a technical interview.
- \_\_init\_\_.py
    - Required for the modular structure, nothing within it needed.

This allows for relatively easy extension of this environment, currently, provided that the code is in Python.  Technically speaking, gen.py is not needed, though advised so that you don't actually have to come up with solutions.json yourself.

Worth noting is that response.py needs from the JSON a list of lists, with the following sort of format:
```
[
    [
        [input1.1, input1.2, ...], 
        expected_output1
    ],
    [
        [input2.1, input2.2, ...], 
        expected_output2
     ],
    ...,
    [
        [inputn.1, inputn.2, ...], 
        expected_outputn
    ]
]
```
Where your input list matches the order of the function signature (this is only important for those extending this repo, so if you only want to use the repo don't worry).  The expected output is self-explanatory, it should be whatever you expect the output for the given input to be, and can be any of the following types: int, float, bool, str, tuple, list, set, or dict.


# Coming Soon:
- gen.py for Login-Backend
- Dynamic Programming Challenges
- Support for other languages?
- More cool questions!

# Contact
Should anything be broken, or you just have suggestions, feel free to reach out to me at matthewschilling2023@u.northwestern.edu!
